hi my name is dr. Neil Bernie from the
ends meet Animal Hospital this is my
co-star Seamus hi Shane us how you feel
about and we're going to be talking
about the bermuda toad
I'm going to talk about some of the
dangers that are here in Bermuda from
Bufo Mariners the cane toad this little
creature here has enough venom in him to
easily kill Seamus the venom is found in
the skin of the toad and also in these
parotid glands just behind his eye and
this guy as the angrier he gets and the
more he puffs himself up the more likely
he is to exude venom from these the
venom of the toad has several actions on
the dog one of them is extremely like
strychnine which works to cause
convulsions there is a second one that
works like digitalis which affects the
strength of the heart contraction and
there are other neurological toxins if
the dog is exposed to these toxins he is
likely to first of all have an irritated
mouth he's going to salivate rub and
pour in his mouth and get distressed at
that stage it's very important to try to
get dry paper towels and wipe out the
venom from the mouth take a warm water
soaked cotton ball and gently clean
around the eyes we're trying to get any
venom there is away from the dog so they
can't absorb it do not use vinegar there
is an old wives tale here in Bermuda
that vinegar will neutralize the toxin
this is not the case vinegar can be very
dangerous if a dog is convulsing and he
inhales the vinegar it can cause him a
severe and sometimes fatal pneumonia so
vinegar is out we just want to clean the
venom away if the dog then starts to
show any signs of twitching neurological
signs or if this is a very small dog
like a Yorkshire Terrier a chihuahua or
Pomeranian contact your vet immediately
call their emergency number and have the
animal looked at larger dogs may be okay
to have limited exposure and they'll
just rub their mouths a bit and they
will not develop the further seizures
and convulsions but if you have any
sized dogs and you find it already
seizuring or convulsing and you are
suspicious that a toad is involved that
animal must get to a veterinarian
immediately we will sedate these animals
put intravenous fluids into them bring
their temperature down because one of
the killing factors in a large dog is
heat stroke a big German Shepherd a very
heavy overweight Labrador any of these
dogs that start seizuring in Bermuda is
quite likely to generate a temperature
of up to a hundred and eight or a
hundred and nine degrees Fahrenheit
which will kill the dog if you need any
further instruction or any further
comments or questions that you might
have call your veterinarian and ask to
be further educated about the dangers of
the Bermuda toad thank you